---
layout: default_sparse
title: Mark Bradshaw
---

## Mark Bradshaw, Professor of Psychology, 1961--2004

Mark had a short but highly productive life. Born in Larne, Northern Ireland
he joined the Merchant Navy when he was 17 and earned a Distinction for his
OND in marine engineering at Glasgow College of Nautical Studies.  This
allowed him to gain an entry to the University of Glasgow where he gained a
first in his MA in psychology and was awarded the Henry Watt Prize for
Experimental Psychology. He then moved to Sheffield Psychology Department's
Artificial Intelligence Vision Research Unit to read for a PhD on the
combination of stereo and motion information with John Frisby and John
Mayhew. After receiving his PhD in 1989 he spent five months working with
Barbara Gillam at NSW University in Sydney.

Between 1990 and 1995 Mark was employed as a post-doctoral researcher in the
Department of Experimental Psychology at the University of Oxford. This
involved working in Brian Rogers' world-leading vision group on an EC Esprit
Initiative funded programme of work on "vision in a natural
environment". During this time Mark was involved in the development of Brian's
new laboratory including the design and development of all the software and
devices at the cutting edge of stereoscopic research.

Mark was originally appointed to Surrey on 1st September 1995 under the
University of Surrey 'New Blood' foundation lectureship scheme. Mark's
outstanding contribution to the field of computational and psychophysical
aspects of human visual perception lead to a promotion to Reader in April 1999
and to Professor in April 2003. We were also fortunate to have had Mark as a
warden during his time at Surrey.

Mark's main line of research, which he began in Sheffield and continued in
Oxford and Surrey, was into the cues by which we see the three-dimensional
structure of objects and surfaces. The information from stereoscopic disparity
and from the observer's own motion were shown to interact, and moreover to do
so in ways that depend on the visual systems' own internal estimate of the
absolute viewing distance. These conclusions were derived from a series of
complex and highly technical experiments, which required precisely calibrated
equipment and sophisticated programming techniques. The expertise with which
Mark carried them out perhaps demonstrates the beneficial effects of having a
qualification in marine engineering as well as in psychology, as much as to
Mark's own skill and perfectionism. The results were presented in a series of
classic and highly cited papers, and contributed to the reputation of Mark's
lab for producing reliable data at the cutting edge of research.

His next pioneering and technically demanding research was on the role of
vision in guiding hand movements towards objects in order to grasp
them. Again, the complex interplay of cues from stereopsis and motion in
constraining action within a multi-parametric response space was demonstrated
with care and mastery. As if this was not enough, Mark then went on to study
the development of these abilities in middle childhood, with implications for
developmental dyslexia, and to apply the findings to practical situations such
as the optimal operation of telepresence systems. He also extended his range
of investigations to cognitive studies of attention, the perception of emotion
in biological (point-light) motion stimuli, visual illusions, eye movements
and the perception of objects in natural scenes.

The way Mark ran his own lab and worked with his students was a model of team
working and productivity. He had strong views on how research students should
be managed and a very clear idea about the need to have all his students
working as a team and supporting each other. He even forewent the offer of a
larger office so that it could be used to keep his students and researchers
together.  He wanted, and expected them to share ideas and expertise and was
concerned to see a coherent team emerge from his lab. Many of his students
have gone on to good jobs in some of the best departments of psychology in the
country like Cardiff, Bangor and St. Andrews.

He favoured a direct, data driven approach to his research. He counselled his
students to do experiments rather than spend too much time reading about other
people's work. While he was no fan of bureaucracy he maintained a rigorous
system of lab books and encouraged his students into such good practices from
the outset of their research careers.  He had numerous collaborations with Ian
Davies, John Groeger, David Rose and others at Surrey as well as with Andrew
Glennerster (Oxford) and Keith Langley (UCL) among other key researchers in
the field.  In 2002 alone he produced 14 high quality refereed journal
articles mostly with students or former students.

Socially Mark was a very friendly and easy person to be with. He loved to
tease his friends and he had a wicked sense of humour.  Sometimes you had to
lever him out of his lab to go for a drink but once this had been achieved the
effort was always rewarded by a convivial evening. He met people on their own
terms and despite spending long hours worrying about the minutiae of his
highly specialised area he could talk to anyone about almost anything.  Leave
him alone in a pub for 5 minutes and he'd strike up a conversation with a
complete stranger and the chances were he would find he had something in
common with them.

Sport was a great passion both watching and playing.  An avid supporter of
London Irish and a vice president of the Oxford Union RUFC, he was keen golfer
and had just taken up sailing when his illness curtailed some of his
activities.  He also loved horse racing and acquired a considerable background
knowledge of the sport.

Mark died of complications associated with his cancer at home on the 11th of
October. He had been ill for some time and had been through the full panoply
of treatments. Although he had known that the outlook was not good he retained
his sense of humour and was fun company. He never lost his enthusiasm for
vision research and continued to publish prodigiously to the end. He was
working on several new papers in the last week of his life.  He was 43.

| _Dr Chris Fife-Schaw, Prof John Groeger and Dr David Rose_
| _University of Surrey_
